What we're going to do next
is a two step process for
having an excellent documentation for
this monorepo.
Now, as you start building
software that's more and
more complicated apps that
are more complicated It starts to.
It starts to become important to have
documentation even for the app itself.
Right?
You have a team of like 15 or
20 people having Good API Doc's is
an important way that you can share
share information in a situation where
nobody is an expert in everything.
And you don't want to have to go.
You know, ask somebody and
have them explain it to you like it's
a very expensive way to pass information.
And it's lossy because they might
not be available or they might.
Give you a short and quick and
then complete explanation.
So, API Doc's are not just for libraries.
And I'm going to show you a way
that you can set this up.
such that if you just
document your code Well,
in a way that will pull just you're
already going to be motivated by having
good tooltips right and
having good autocompletes.
If you document your code well, such that
you have a good developer experience,
you're going to get some
great extra stuff for free.
In particular,
we're going to have an API report.
So we can understand how
a given proposed code changes.
Has an effect on the public API surface of
any one of these little modules, right?
If you treated them as libraries,
you want types and data, and utils.
At the very least, these three,
you want those to be relatively stable.
Especially like in a situation where If
you do what I'm suggesting you can do, and
kind of mix and match these
potentially you have a mobile app or
you have a desktop app in
addition to the web experience.
As soon as you have multiple consumers
having a stable way to talk to them is of
critical importance.
So we're gonna build that API report so
that you can understand for
a given change,
how will this affect my API?
The second thing we're gonna do is use
that same information to provide some
turn key documentation that
works beautifully with GitHub.
So here we go.
The first thing we're gonna do is
install a couple of new packages.
And those are called API extractor and
API documenter.
Actually, let's just do
API extractor first.
Now this is a so workspace wide tool.
And so we're just going to install
it as a workspace dependency.
Microsoft API extractor,
So the next thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna say yarn api-extractor init.
And that will create
a baseline config file for us.
And we're gonna rename that config
file soon as it's generated.
So it's API extractor js.
This is going to be again, a common
file that other packages extend from.
And I'm gonna leave it at the root
of the project here, cuz actually,
I don't think we need to in this case
Let's move it into the packages folder.
That's where I like to
keep the sort of base.
And we're going to API extractor base.
This is not to be used directly
baseline configuration.
I'm going to save that.
And then I'm going to go
into our course files.
And in Section 11 API report,
there is another API extractor base.
So I'm going to go get add.
And then I'm going to copy the contents
of this file into the new one we just
created.
Why am I doing this?
I want to show you what I've changed.
And now we can see in the gutter here, all
of the things that have sort of flipped.
So, starting from the top, I have,
let's see was this enabled by default
Looks like I have enabled it.
So this creates a JSON file
that can be used later.
To generate API documentation.
We know we're going to do this so
we may as well enable it now.
And we're placing this
file in a particular path.
There's going to be this temp folder.
You don't have this yet,
because it's get ignored.
And I still have mine here, but
I can point to it thankfully,
because it's still here.
So this project folder is going to be
one of the packages in your mono repo.
So we're going to go one directory up,
packages, one directory up to the root.
And then into the temp folder.
And then finally,
we're creating a JSON file that has
the package name in the filename.
So what we should end up with is this,
four files,
each representing docs for
one package within your monorepo.
We're going to enable this
feature called a dtsRollup.
So what this allows you to do is define
on a per export basis, what is public?
What is internal only you may expose
things through your modules that
are strictly available for
testing purposes.
You just need to unit test a function.
You have to expose that function.
But you can mark it.
As you know, this is just for
internal use.
API extractor supports
the concept of betas.
So you can have several
of these DTS roll ups,
each of which includes complete
type information for your project.
And one's for the stable release,
one's for the beta, and then one is
an untrimmed roll up that contains
all of your internal types as well.
And depending on what your purposes,
there's there may be a good
reason to use each of them.
For example, In some cases,
packages within your mono repo
may communicate with each other
through non public API's.
Right So, they may change and you may
not call that a breaking change because
these things are only supposed to
talk to each other Through that path.
So we're going to enable
these DTS roll ups.
It's a great way to be more deliberate and
explicit about the type of
information you expose to your users.
And for that matter,
it also allows you to have a concept that
other languages call package, private.
So, Java allows this, where you can say,
I'm creating a package
called com.fernenmasters.shclack and
anything within this package
can access these fields on the class but
nothing outside of the package.
We don't have that concept
in the Java script world.
Right?
You're either in the module or you're not.
And so this Enables that concept and
there's a good rationale for
why that exists and it's a useful one.
And in addition to this,
I'm also just stating
where various DTS roll
ups should be placed.
They're going to be placed in
each packages dist folder.
Alongside the original output, and we're
just going to modify the package JSON
of each package so that it's pointing to
these roll ups instead of pointing to
the raw type information that comes
straight out of the compiler.
So we've got one for our untrimmed file
path and I'm calling this private.
We've got a beta.
And then we've got one with no
qualifier at the end, right.
And this is the public stable API.
This is what if you change this
in a backwards incompatible way,
this is where you should be
major versioning That is all
I've changed the other
things you can do here.
So this behaves kind of like a linter,
as we'll see.
And this allows you to do things like
configure whether things are treated as
warnings or errors, whether they're
surfaced in the console, or they're added
to this API report file where you'll
just see notes like this was a problem.
I found here.
You have a lot of different
knobs you can turn here.
And these each represent a rule of sorts.
So let's keep keep on going here.
I need to create I'm going to go
back up into our starter files here.
So I have a folder here that's
like packages slash pkg.
And then this API extractor JSON thing.
Just copy this into the root of
every one of your packages didn't
want to give you four because
it's the exact same file.
You're just going to put it in each.
123 and
4.
Again, this follows this time, Convention,
have one meaningful confide file,
and then these really thin
ones that I'll extend from it.
So if we want to change options, we're
changing things on the whole project.
By default, at least, of course,
you could go in here and
you could make little adjustments.
But I don't want to have
to do that by default.
I want as much consolidation as I can have
because I If you're bothering to make
a mono repo, you're gonna end up
with a lot of packages in here.
And you just want to think about
the per package maintenance overhead.
You don't want that number to be high
because there's a big coefficient
next to it.
Right?
So if it's like takes
an hour of my time a week,
and there are 50 packages, well,
that just became your full time job and
then a little bit You know,
you can't you can't have that.
So you want that number to be really
small per package maintenance.